README.md, before:

# Spring Security Authentication & Authorization Implementation

## Objectives Met
- Implemented Authentication and Authorization security tactics
- Used Spring Framework for implementation
- Multiple user types with different privileges
- URL-based service access control
- Java programming language

### Prerequisites
- Java 17 or higher
- Maven 3.6+
- Postman or curl for API testing

### Installation & Running
1. Clone/Download the project
    - `git clone https://github.com/SoudagarLondhe/Authentication-Authorization-Tactics.git`
2. Navigate to project directory:
    - `cd Authentication-Authorization-Tactics`
3. Build the application:
    - `mvn clean package`
4. Run the application:
    - `mvn spring-boot:run`
5. Testing using postman:
    1. Get token for John (USER role)
        - `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"username":"john","password":"password123"}'`

    2. Get token for Michael (ADMIN role) 
        - `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"username":"michael","password":"admin123"}'`

    3. Test admin endpoint with Michael's token (should work)
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/admin/secret -H "Authorization: Bearer <MICHAEL_TOKEN>"`

    4. Test admin endpoint with John's token (should return 403 Forbidden)
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/admin/secret -H "Authorization: Bearer <JOHN_TOKEN>"`

    5. Test user endpoint with both tokens (should work for both)
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/user/data -H "Authorization: Bearer <JOHN_TOKEN>"`
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/user/data -H "Authorization: Bearer <MICHAEL_TOKEN>"`

    6. Test public endpoint (no auth required)
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/public/ping`
    
### Libraries used 
- Spring Boot 3.3.4 - Core application framework providing dependency injection and auto-configuration for rapid security implementation.

- Spring Security 6 - Primary security framework implementing authentication and authorization tactics for protecting endpoints.

- JJWT 0.11.5 - JSON Web Token library handling token creation, signature verification, and expiration for stateless authentication.

- BCrypt Password Encoding - Secure password hashing algorithm protecting credentials with salted, adaptive hashing.

- Spring Validation - Input validation framework ensuring data integrity in authentication requests through annotation-based checks.

- Lombok - Code reduction library eliminating boilerplate (e.g., getters/setters) and improving maintainability.

- Spring Boot Starter Test - Provides JUnit, Mockito, and Spring test utilities for validating authentication and authorization flows.

Commit message:

Added a brief overview to the README.
Added an overview section to the README.md.

README.md, after:

# Spring Security Authentication & Authorization Implementation

## Overview
This application demonstrates rudimentary implementations of the Authentication and Authorization security tactics as described in [Software Architecture and Practice](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/software-architecture-in/9780136885979/).

## Objectives Met
- Implemented Authentication and Authorization security tactics
- Used Spring Framework for implementation
- Multiple user types with different privileges
- URL-based service access control
- Java programming language

### Prerequisites
- Java 17 or higher
- Maven 3.6+
- Postman or curl for API testing

### Installation & Running
1. Clone/Download the project
    - `git clone https://github.com/SoudagarLondhe/Authentication-Authorization-Tactics.git`
2. Navigate to project directory:
    - `cd Authentication-Authorization-Tactics`
3. Build the application:
    - `mvn clean package`
4. Run the application:
    - `mvn spring-boot:run`
5. Testing using postman:
    1. Get token for John (USER role)
        - `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"username":"john","password":"password123"}'`

    2. Get token for Michael (ADMIN role) 
        - `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"username":"michael","password":"admin123"}'`

    3. Test admin endpoint with Michael's token (should work)
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/admin/secret -H "Authorization: Bearer <MICHAEL_TOKEN>"`

    4. Test admin endpoint with John's token (should return 403 Forbidden)
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/admin/secret -H "Authorization: Bearer <JOHN_TOKEN>"`

    5. Test user endpoint with both tokens (should work for both)
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/user/data -H "Authorization: Bearer <JOHN_TOKEN>"`
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/user/data -H "Authorization: Bearer <MICHAEL_TOKEN>"`

    6. Test public endpoint (no auth required)
        - `curl http://localhost:8080/api/public/ping`
    
### Libraries used 
- Spring Boot 3.3.4 - Core application framework providing dependency injection and auto-configuration for rapid security implementation.

- Spring Security 6 - Primary security framework implementing authentication and authorization tactics for protecting endpoints.

- JJWT 0.11.5 - JSON Web Token library handling token creation, signature verification, and expiration for stateless authentication.

- BCrypt Password Encoding - Secure password hashing algorithm protecting credentials with salted, adaptive hashing.

- Spring Validation - Input validation framework ensuring data integrity in authentication requests through annotation-based checks.

- Lombok - Code reduction library eliminating boilerplate (e.g., getters/setters) and improving maintainability.

- Spring Boot Starter Test - Provides JUnit, Mockito, and Spring test utilities for validating authentication and authorization flows.
